Jay, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
Thanks for having me, Michael.
It's a pleasure to be here.
It's a pleasure to have you.
Congratulations.
Thanks.
And, of course, I would be remiss if I didn't totally qualify that, that any congrats have
to be accepted on behalf of hundreds of people at the NIF, at the laboratory and laboratories
and industry around, and indeed extending back six decades of research that went into this.
And so my part is insignificant, but not negligible.
I'm having a couple of my mental models broken recently.
For me, fusion has always been one of those things that's always 30 years out.
You know, it's like, oh, just we know it's possible, but it's just we're really barely
scratching the surface. And the other mental model is AI is always 30 years out as well.
And, you know, this year of chat to P and stable diffusion and all those things.
And changing. Yeah. And this huge breakthrough that you all had, it's I'm sure there's some
work to be done. You're not there yet. Right. We're not all driving around little tiny
any water-powered cars and stuff.
But it shows that it's possible, right?
And that it's a massive deal.
>>Tom: Yeah, no, you're absolutely right.
There are a couple of big changes here
in just the last months, even.
So I'm still kind of processing both of those, actually.
So yeah, it's going to be an interesting world.
I think as far as Ignition, it is still a long, long path
forward towards utilization.
- It sure is, but--
- We can talk about that.
- Yeah, we will, but it's so exciting
because with renewables, that's great,
but there's always a cost to that
in terms of like, well, just, you know,
think solar panels, like the mountains of e-waste
of those things as they deteriorate over time
or just getting them all produced.
But I think this is different
and I'm super excited to be diving into it with you.
I'm also really interested to hear how Python played
an interesting role in it.
Yeah, yeah, I think that's kind of a fun story.
And so I'm happy to have a chance to share it.
Yeah, and you've been central to it, which is fantastic.
Now, before we get into all that,
let's get into your story.
How'd you get into, I guess, physics as well as Python?
Yeah, yeah.
So I always wanted to be a scientist growing up.
As a little kid, it was always space and dinosaurs
and dinosaurs and space and all.
And that's how it started.
And then I remember, it's actually just about this time,
about 40 years ago or so, my dad brought home a Commodore 64.
And so this would have been the after Christmas
buzz of learning BASIC and stuff, my sister and I.
So that really started my computational journey.
And then fast forwarding to I got a degree in physics
from Montana State University, did a cosmology
with Bill Hiscock there, and then moved to California,
took some time off.
I worked at Chevron in the geophysics staff
for a couple of years, met my wife there,
worked at NASA Ames Research Center in Mountain View
for a year.
Then I decided to go back to school,
which is what I always wanted to do.
I looked around, I didn't really wanna move very much.
I was in the East Bay and in the San Francisco Bay Area.
- It's nice there.
- It is nice there.
- And probably you have a family as well, right?
Which makes it, that can also always be a tricky balance.
- Yeah, exactly, exactly.
That's always a constraint.
And ultimately it's a fairly stupid reason to make decisions
but it actually worked out very well
'cause it made me look around
and it turned out there was this amazing graduate program
at this place called Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
run through the UC Davis, University of California Davis,
called the Department of Applied Science.
And so I ended up going there for five years for a PhD
and studied gamma ray bursts, the largest explosions
in the universe from across the universe.
They send their high energy radiation
from these giant relativistic mysterious explosions.
It's very exciting.
And I worked on modeling, doing a numerical modeling
of neutron stars in their last few orbits
in a few milliseconds before they coalesced
as a defunct model for gamma-ray bursts at the time.
But it was a great experience programming in C++
and doing general relativity and such.
And then I did a postdoc after that,
and I got involved with another code at the lab
that's actually people who are interested
in numerical astrophysics might look into.
It's called Cosmos++ with Peter Aninos
and Chris Fregeel at College of Charleston.
Again, C++ doing more gamma ray burst research and such.
And that's what I did until about 20 years ago
when I took a job at Ignition with the ICF campaign,
the Inertial Confinement Fusion campaign.
And that's where I've basically been ever since.
Then things sort of switched gears.
I basically kind of, I still worked with Cosmos++
for a few years, part-time,
but really I kind of retired my compiled efforts
and went more towards the interpreted world
and got more involved in that.
Because then in ICF, the whole point was NIF was being built.
It was still a hole in the ground at the time.
But there were these big multi-physics codes.
That's what we use at the lab to research our ideas,
to run them in simulation, see what they'll do.
And we use interpreted languages to interface with those,
either to run the code to help steer it, if you will,
but also to post-process.
And so I got really involved with a few languages.
And Python didn't actually come to the fore at first.
I was introduced to Python a little bit in the '90s.
I wrote a little cron job that went to the weather service
and put a weather map of my background
every hour, which I thought was pretty nifty.
And so I saw that it had potential.
But one of the languages that I was first introduced to
was Yorick, which was actually written by a physicist
at Livermore, Dave Monroe.
And so it's fairly extensively used at the lab.
And it actually is--
it has a causal connection to particularly the NumPy library
in Python.
I also actually got pretty involved in Perl at the time.
Something about it appealed to me.
I liked its lexical structure.
Larry Wall is a linguist and all.
But definitely for the last 10 years or so,
the weak couplings that are appealing about Python
just kept coming back.
And so I've since bitten down on that hook
and drank Kool-Aid pretty readily.
And so the last 10 years or so,
it's been all Python all the time.
(laughs)
- Yeah.
Now you just got to tattoo the PyKathon logo
and it's no going back.
- Exactly.
- Got it.
(laughing)
- You have one, right?
- That's right, I keep my whole back.
- Yeah, right, right.
- One thing that stands out with that story,
which is really interesting, I think,
it seems to me like there's quite a move
in the sciences in general to move more towards open source
and more towards sharing in terms of,
hey, if you use this library and we use that library,
then maybe we can both have a better library
type of sharing than there had traditionally been.
- Absolutely, and that's something that I've been
fortunate enough to kind of watch happen
over the course of these years.
And I think, you know, we see that it just,
it's just, it's nonlinear, it's just exploding.
You know, I think one of the appeals of Python has been,
you know, PyPI and just this proliferation of packages, right?
I mean, shout out your Python Bytes podcast.
I find that to be quite fun and almost overwhelming the new things
that are coming out all the time.
And, you know, you got to kind of keep up and pick and choose, but
there's all sorts of new things.
And, you know, the paradigm has shifted for me and I think a lot of people,
right, where, oh, I have this thing to do.
I better start doing that or crack a book or whatever.
But no, it's like, let's find the package
that already does that.
And that's just a fundamental shift.
And it's actually a lot of fun, I think.
And you can contribute to that as well.
- Oh, absolutely.
Yeah, absolutely.
I feel like when I went to school,
I just took one or two, just maybe one or two.
I certainly won, maybe two computer science type classes.
And it was all about algorithms and how can you evaluate,
oh, there's bubble sort versus that,
or this data structure versus that.
And it seems a lot less, not that that's irrelevant,
but it seems way more important now to,
oh, I can evaluate these libraries and pick this library.
And it probably does something great inside,
but I don't need to worry about it, right?
It's more building with Lego blocks
than it is building with wiring kits.
I don't know, it's more big pieces
that you just click together.
And just to tie in the very first inklings
of what ChatGPT and Copilot and stuff can bring,
I mean, I think Andrej Karpathy made the comment
that the new interpreted language is English.
And it's almost getting to that point where we can just almost
dictate what we want, which is sort
of the next level of abstraction.
I think that's just going to happen now.
>>Yeah, we're past the 30 years, I guess, and it's--
[LAUGHTER]
But I think this is really a positive move for the sciences
in general, that so many of these libraries are available.
And now you have thousands or millions of people working
on it and using it, not just a single research lab.
Yeah, and it's nice to actually see--
I think from my little vantage point,
I'm not always aware of it.
But the lab, Livermore, for instance--
and I think all the labs participate--
they release a wealth of open source software as well.
So it tends to be fairly focused on high performance computing.
It has a niche, but it's definitely--
we're trying to give back and be part of that conversation.
>>Nice, so it's also a two-way street.
>>Yeah, definitely, definitely.
>>Well, let's start our conversation
and our exploration here with some science,
and then we'll get back down to the Python inside of it.
Yeah, let's talk about just all the stuff that's
led up to fusion in general, and then
the science and the attempts that have led up
to this great breakthrough.
Yeah, so like I mentioned, actually, laser-induced fusion
has been a research area for six decades at the lab.
when the first ideas were starting,
when the first lasers were around
and the first people started thinking about that
as a driver for fusion.
And again, this concept of fusion
is inertial confinement fusion.
It's sort of based on the concept of taking some hydrogen,
hydrogen isotopes, we tend to use deuterium and tritium.
Those are the heavier versions of hydrogen
because they have a higher cross-section
for fusion reacting.
And we implode them.
So yes, you have a diagram here that you're showing.
So we have a capsule, rather than that's
distinct from magnetic fusion, which
is sort of the other camp, where it's a little bit more
like the fluorescent bulb model for fusion,
where you're running plasma through a torus or some sort
of a manifold like that, making it very hot,
but at low density, and maybe something a little more
akin to the corona of the sun, say.
And fusion will happen there in those schemes.
And then here, we're actually taking all of the fuel
and putting it inside of one little capsule.
And then we're compressing that capsule,
getting it to very dense, as opposed
to fusion or magnetic fusion, which is low density,
very dense and hot conditions where fusion can transpire.
And so it's actually sort of analogous, I think,
to an internal combustion engine in that regard.
So we're actually driving fusion.
It happens, and it blows itself apart.
>>Luis: OK.
Yeah, so the graphics that I had seen largely
were those big torus-like structures.
What is it?
There's a name for that, that T.
>>Tom: Well, there's Tokamaks and Spheremaks.
Yeah, there's several concepts out there.
>>Luis: Right, that's the one.
So that's probably-- yeah, that's
probably what a lot of people are familiar with.
And this project is focused on aiming a bunch of lasers
at a really small point and just really compressing it
and heating it all at once, right?
Exactly.
So just to kind of give the outline, just like you said,
so the NIF is a big, big stadium-sized facility
at the northeast corner of Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory.
And in it, it is filled with 192 gigantic beams.
Each one of them is basically one
of the largest laser facilities in the world.
And there are 192 of them.
And they each basically work in concert
to shine a pulse of just a few nanoseconds long.
And this pulse goes down.
And it's kind of as the graph that you showed.
They all are basically trying to converge at a point.
But rather than just a point, what
we put at the center of this convergence of all these 192
beams is a little tiny gold can.
And so the can is about a centimeter high and maybe
half a centimeter wide.
And on the top and bottom, you put these two little holes
in the nomenclature, the laser entrance holes, the LEHs.
And so it's rather amazing, these 192 beams
of gigantic lasers.
And when they're being amplified,
they're actually several feet across.
So the beams are spread out.
They're huge.
But they all get focused down to the point
where they can all go through just a couple of millimeter
sized hole, both at the top and the bottom of this gold can.
And they shine into the can, and they
shine on the inside wall of the can.
And their goal is then to heat the can.
So you start with this laser light,
and then you want to heat this can.
And this can, we refer to it as a holorum.
That's a German word that translates roughly
to hollow room.
And that's just simply because it's something
that holds the heat.
And hole rooms are actually everywhere in our life.
Our ovens are a hole room.
Ovens heat up to temperatures of--
are infrared temperatures.
We can feel that heat.
We can't see it, but we can feel it.
If you get up--
we heat these little hole rooms up to actually X-ray
temperatures so that it's so hot, they're beyond visual.
They're beyond ultraviolet, but into the X-rays.
And it's actually a fraction of the temperature
at the center of the sun, in fact.
And so we're actually bathing this little tiny gold
can in this superheated X-ray environment.
And then we inserted inside of that horn
beforehand a hapless little capsule.
And this capsule is about--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Exactly.
You kind of feel sorry for it sometimes.
It anthropomorphizes it a little bit.
But this capsule is made of-- it's a very, very thin shell,
just a couple hundred microns or 100 or so microns thick.
And right now, these shots are being-- actually,
they're used nanocrystalline diamond.
So they're like pure carbon shells.
And so they're very dense.
And so it's kind of funny.
We have a gold hole room.
The hole room is made out of gold,
and the capsule is made out of diamond, right?
And so could you have picked more prosaic ingredients?
But these are the ones that work.
And so the point of this capsule is really just it acts
like a rocket fuel.
And so what happens is the laser energy
is absorbed into that diamond, and it explodes.
It's just pretty much exactly what you'd kind of think.
It just heats and explodes.
And then going back to your Newton's third law,
so if you have an action, for every action
there has to be an equal and opposite reaction.
If you have this little capsule exploding outward
in this bath of X-rays, whatever you put inside of that capsule
has to go inward.
And happily, we actually put in a little bit
of deuterium and tritium, and we actually
froze it into an ice layer around the inside
of that capsule.
So that becomes our payload.
So the spherical rocket analogy is actually very apt.
So you're actually, you're having this fuel blowing outward
and causing thrust that pushes the payload inward.
And you try to compress it into a tiny little pellet,
again, trying to achieve very, very high densities,
hundreds of grams per cubic centimeter
and tens of kilovolts.
That's no enclature, we can talk more about that.
But to get to the point where actually fusion conditions.
And what you're looking for and the goal,
the reason why we're talking right now
is the goal was always to achieve an ignition.
So for a very long time, people have demonstrated
that you can get neutrons out of this.
You can actually get a few of the billions of hydrodynamics
in there to fuse.
But what we're trying to do is get to the point
where they bootstrap, where one fusion can cause
another fusion or several more fusions, which
will cause more fusions.
And you get what's called an ignition,
and it's ignition wave where actually the fusions will
cause more fusions, and they'll actually
cause a burn propagating front to go
from the tiny center of that little assembled piece of fuel,
move outward, and actually propagate and burn fuel
as it goes out.
And that way, you can actually--
that way, you get a macroscopic amount of the fuel
to burn to convert to helium and release fusion energy, release
neutrons.
And that's what we finally achieved.
It's extremely difficult, because basically everything
has to work perfectly.
>>Luis: In 192 lasers, and probably
a chaotic, dynamic reaction of some form of explosion
and interaction there.
It's not super easy to control.
And there's some interesting Python planning,
some of those experiments and stuff.
But it sounds to me that it's--
even though it's, in a sense, very much the opposite of fission, traditional nuclear reactions
that we already leverage, the way that it kind of propagates and once you get it going,
it sounds actually oddly similar.
Yeah, I mean, fission, fission, the good thing about it is, or the nice thing about it is that
it's passive, right? But it does operate on that same idea. If you put, you know, fission
products are really close together and one goes off, then it might cause others to go off and you can get that chain reaction and
Exactly, that's we're trying to get that to happen with with fusion
But the thing is that you know fusion these particles are so light and they they're all like charges, right?
So they're always trying to push each other away that and as soon as you start putting heat into it
I the product of fusion the thing you wanted to get out of it
It immediately blows itself apart and turns itself off unlike fission
And so that's really kind of always the trick.
- That's the hard part, yeah.
- Yeah, exactly.
- So you have to really carefully balance the lasers
to keep the confinement happening
and keep the pressure there until it takes off, right?
- Right, so, excuse me.
So the lasers, I'll give short shrift,
unfortunately, there's just amazing technological
achievements, frankly. And I'm only just, you know, I know a
little bit about them, I know enough about them to simulate
them. But they're amazing technological achievements that
you can get all these to run together. And what they do is
actually they give it they give this blast, right, they heat the
whole room, and they actually heat it, not just like turn it
to 450, like your oven, they actually heat it in these very
precise stages that are timed all over the course of this few
nanoseconds to actually, you're actually trying to, to ablate
this, this rocket fuel in steps.
You're not just trying to just blam.
You're just actually, and, and doing that, you do that very precisely.
So you're actually blowing a first step and then you do another step and then
you actually hit it harder and really give it a good hard drive to really implode it.
And all of that is happening by basically the light, the lasers over the course of
these few nanoseconds, just sort of pulsing in a sense, if you will, to heat
this whole room in these stages.
So all of that has to be just perfect.
It has to be very uniform.
And then that ends up driving this capsule.
And the capsule doesn't want to actually implode.
And that's another big thing is it's unstable.
Nature doesn't want to take--
they always say nature hates vacuums.
Nature also hates when you take all the items in a room
and try to move them into one corner.
It doesn't let you do that easily.
And that's basically what we're trying to do.
We're trying to take all of these hydrogens
and put them all together into a tiny, tiny space.
And like you'd imagine, just trying
to press a balloon together, we're
trying to implode this capsule by a factor of 30
in linear scale, 20 to 30.
And if you tried to take a balloon and do that,
you could imagine you push it in and it pops out
where your fingers aren't.
So you bring in a friend and you push together
and you're all pushing together.
And pretty soon the balloon is finding tiny little places
to squeeze out, but it's gonna find them, right?
And so you have to just basically iteratively
make everything as perfect as possible.
And so the other hero of, I think, this achievement,
not just the lasers, the lasers have been just going
through these rather miraculous increments
beyond their original design specs to the point
where they're delivering more energy than they were
originally promised and with unprecedented smoothness
and precision.
But also the capsule and its smoothness and perfection
is amazing.
So these capsules, if you just think of out-of-roundness,
they're about 200 nanometers maybe out of round,
out of a millimeter.
And the Earth is roughly 20 kilometers out of around 6,000.
So if you do those ratios, this is actually about 10 times
rounder than the Earth.
And it's just a tiny little 2 millimeters across a capsule.
So they're very, very smooth.
And that's something that's been progressing.
And I would say those two achievements are
kind of the things that had to be incrementally improved
to the point where you're trying to realize the ideal.
Our codes are good at simulating ideals.
And we do a lot of work to try to actually simulate
the imperfections as well and capture
as many of those imperfections as possible.
But we've always been able to do the ideal and say,
yeah, the ideal works, the whole spherical cow idea.
But indeed--
>>It's exactly pie around this ideal circle.
And of course, it's going to work like this.
And there you go.
Exactly. And it's like, oh, that works really well. And that's
been the issue. And really what's happening is these large
teams of experimentalists have been able to make the laser
better and continue to and make these targets better. And
they're actually getting closer and closer to ideals that even
just a few years ago were like, ridiculous. So it's really a
testament to that hard work.
Yeah, really amazing.
So what we're all learning is to collapse this balloon,
you need 192 friends, or 191 friends,
if you don't count yourself right.
Right, right.
Well, the fact that we're doing a can, like this whole room,
is very important.
We're not actually shining the lasers on the capsule.
That's something that's called direct drive.
And indeed, that is a field of study.
That provides its own challenge, because indeed, each laser
is like a little fingertip trying to push on the capsule.
This is so-called indirect drive because we're
driving the capsule by the heating bath of the lasers.
The lasers are heating this whole room,
and that's driving the capsule.
And that's--
>>So it's the-- sorry, so it's the actual--
it's more the shell that is playing the important role
of doing the compression.
And you need to provide just enough controlled and even
heating to make it go.
Right, yeah, you want to make that, but you still need to make that heating as controlled and even
as you can. And it's still not even enough, really, when you so there's been a, you have to do a lot
of work with, you know, making sure that heating, you know, where you put the beams, where the spots
are, which are kind of like the elements in your oven, right? You know, if you turn on the broil
elements, you'll burn your toast, right? And so you have to know where to put those elements,
where to where do those spots hit the inside of the plurum to heat as uniformly as possible.
Yeah, and people might be thinking, well, compressing something 30 times, it's not that
crazy. We do that with air all the time. You look at combustion engines and other stuff.
But you're also heating it.
Well, it's 30 times linear.
Yeah, but you're also heating it to near the temperature of the sun. It wants to get a
lot bigger really quickly. It doesn't want to even stay where it is, right?
Absolutely, yes. You're heating it up to actually temperatures in excess of the center of the
And then so yeah, it doesn't want to be there.
[LAUGHS]
>>Luis: It wants to get moving.
All right.
Fantastic.
Let's just talk one more science side thing,
then we'll dive into the software side.
So this is the first time this has been done,
and it's a huge accomplishment.
How do you all see this very quick and small reaction
potentially turning into actual energy sources?
Where do we go from here to do something productive with this?
Right, so it's important to note that the National Ignition
Facility itself was a demonstration facility.
It's a research facility.
So it's not meant to become an energy facility.
And indeed, there are other startups out there,
and I think there are probably going to be more,
that are exploring ways to commoditize this.
So it's kind of interesting to think about the energy
a little bit, if I can.
So just to kind of add a scale to this,
a human eats about 2,000 calories of food a day,
an adult.
And those are actually kilocalories,
nutritional calories.
So that's 2 million calories, which is 2 megacalories.
And it turns out that a calorie is--
kind of convenient is four joules, another scientific measure of energy that we use all the
time. So that two kilocalories we eat every day is basically two million calories, which is eight
megajoules, eight million joules. So we just multiply by that four. So eight megajoules you
eat every day. So this laser is producing two megajoules, sort of like your breakfast of energy.
So it's actually not an achievable amount of energy,
but it does it in just a few nanoseconds, right?
And I don't know how to describe a nanosecond all that well,
except to know that the speed of light is a good measure,
right, the speed of light.
So at the speed of light,
a light wave can go around the earth
seven and a half times in a second.
But in a nanosecond, light only goes 30 centimeters.
So about a foot.
And so I think that gives you an idea
just how quick that is.
And so that's the key.
It gives you a sense also of how insane,
how insanely precise those lasers have to be.
Exactly.
Yeah.
They've got that 30 centimeters.
The entire-- yeah, that's the cosmic speed limit.
No information can go faster than that.
And so everything has to be within this really
small envelope.
It's quite amazing.
And then the reason why we're talking
about this particular achievement
is that it actually yielded a little over 3 megajoules,
so maybe breakfast plus lunch in fusion yield.
And again, that happened instantaneously, effectively.
That was released.
So it's more about the release that makes it amazing.
But the thing is that the energies aren't all
that large at this point.
And it occurred to me that if you--
so well, if you think about--
it's kind of interesting to think about.
So going back to the food analogy,
so you eat 8 megajoules per day.
A day is 24 hours times 60 minutes times 60 seconds.
So 24 times 3,600.
It's 80,000 or 90,000 seconds, right?
So 8 megajoules divided by, say, 80,000 seconds.
That works out to 100 joules per second, or 100 watts.
So you as a human burn 100 watts, which is a very--
we use that term all the time.
And you can imagine taking a mannequin
and putting a 100-watt incandescent bulb inside,
and it would heat up to our skin temperatures.
So but we're-- of course, we're going at a much, much higher
wattage because we're doing it very quickly.
So you can actually sort of think of like, you know,
a unit of measure that we often use in electricity and stuff
is sort of the kilowatt hour, right?
A thousand watts times an hour, which is again, just 3,600.
So a kilowatt hour is just 3.6 megajoules then.
So 3,600 times a thousand watts.
So 3.6 megajoules is a kilowatt hour.
And not to put you on the spot, Michael,
but do you know how much you pay per kilowatt hour
for your electricity in your home?
think 17 cents. Oh, that's awesome. I'm pretty sure I'm
pretty sure as long as I have the units right, because yeah,
I have an electric car, I have little stuff that'll show me
like, here's how much you charge and how much it pays into your
price here to get your like, so I'm pretty sure that I'm pretty
sure it's 17. And my gun up just a tiny bit.
Okay, yeah. So I pay about 25 off peak and like 45 cents per
kilowatt hour on peak. And so I have an EV and you know, and I'm
kind of aware of all that as well. But so again, you know,
this this this shot produced about a little over three mega
joules, when a kilowatt hour is 3.6, right, which is, as you
said, you can buy one for 17 cents. So I can pretty much save
with certainty that this experiment cost more than 17
cents. Right?
Somewhat, it's gonna be more than 17 cents. Yeah.
Yeah, so this one experiment for my one kilowatt hour I got out
of-- or a little less than a kilowatt hour I got out of it.
And never mind that there was a certain amount put in.
I had to put two megajoules in, and there's inefficiencies
as well.
But so I think that just sort of outlines
the challenge of scale, right?
I mean, so I have to make a capsule that's way,
way cheaper than $0.17 to make money.
probably I want to get more than a kilowatt hour per shot, I'll
probably want to 10 or 100 kilowatt hours per per shot, and
then I'm going to have to have a lot of high rep rate. Because
ultimately, to power your home and my home and a town's home,
you know, you need lots of kilowatt hours. And so so, you
know, scaling it up is is is a challenge. I think that's just
sort of a nice way to illustrate, you know, where,
where you have to go to get there.
Yeah, you got to start somewhere, though, the first
Transistors, I'm sure were expensive.
You know, the first--
- Oh, exactly.
- 100 kilobytes of hard drive storage seemed just insane.
If you told somebody, well, we're gonna need a terabyte
on everybody's computer, like, no, we can't do that.
And here we are just-- - Exactly, yeah.
- On an SD card, nothing, yeah, so.
- Exactly, but there's a lot to do.
There's a lot of growth there that needs to happen.
- It's early stage for sure.
- Right, right, right.
- Awesome.
All right, well, let's talk about some of the software side.
I know that you guys have over at the LLNL,
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory,
you have a software portal.
We have a bunch of different applications
and things that you're sharing, which are really great.
And so I know that you've got a lot of neat things
happening on the software side.
Your area has been largely around designing
and simulating the experiments.
And then once someone runs them to go,
okay, I got some data, how'd that work?
How do we adjust?
So maybe talk to us about some of the software side
what you're doing there.
>>Yeah, right.
So like we were saying, our design cycle
is that we have these quite impressive multi-physics codes
that can simulate these experiments that actually mock
up the whole room and the capsule inside
and actually put fake lasers in and run
how they would interact with the gold atoms
and actually run the entire simulation.
But usually, you don't want to just push the button
and just have it come out.
Usually, you're asking questions about it.
You're instrumenting it up, if you will.
You're checking things.
So you're kind of steering these simulations.
And so one of the big facets of software
that we've been working on for the last few years
is to improve that steering in Python.
We can talk a little bit more about that.
But then also, we have--
so then you get out your simulations result, right?
You say, oh, well, this result did such and such, right?
But now you want to actually compare it to data.
And so you have to go over to a web page
or talk to somebody who ran an experiment on NIF
and talk to them and get that data.
And so that's another area that we've
been working really hard on over the last five or six years
to try to improve that ability.
So that basically we're kind of bringing all the parties
together so that making the simulations easier to run,
easier to work with, and also having the data and tools
proximate to that so that we can all sit in one place
and actually ask all the questions
and get all the answers in that one spot.
So I guess just--
so historically, that's kind of been the design cycle.
And it's been fairly organic, where
People will write tools that work for them to steer code
or to do some post-processing, and then they'll
share them with people.
And then somebody else will share it, and they'll tweak it.
And eventually, somebody will quit asking just friends,
and they'll put it in a directory somewhere
and make it readable.
And so that had been the way we'd done business for a while.
And we're trying to actually improve that.
And so about five or six years ago,
I was designing some experiments for the NIF.
And I was running one of these tools that
were sort of an organically grown thing.
And I was trying to do something that
was a little bit challenging for it and a little bit out
of its strengths.
And I basically kind of had an existential crisis.
I just thought, I can't do this anymore.
These tools aren't cutting it.
you know, the, the code underneath is great, but this,
I'm just beating my head against the wall to talk to it and to
get things out of it. And you know, you can really burn a lot
of human time doing that, which is very expensive. And so I
basically just just stopped running those those tools. Like
it was just, you know, kind of like the office space thing,
you know, where the guy post-technotic suggestion,
right? Yeah. I just thought, you know,
I don't think I don't think I want to go to work today.
I don't think I want to do that either.
Like just, I don't know.
(laughing)
- It was kind of like-
- Yeah, we're good mental model.
- Right, it was kind of like that.
I just felt like I can't do that anymore.
And I think my time would be better spent
trying to improve the model, improve the ecosystem.
And again, so I am drinking the Python Kool-Aid
all the time, learning more and more about the ecosystem.
Also learning just about, you know, Git
and continuous integration,
just things that are out there that I'd been entirely
naive about myself.
And realizing that, oh, there's actually things to do.
And in all fairness, of course, other people
are thinking things like this as well, as per the page
you've got up here.
The lab has tons of people who are doing this stuff in spades.
But there are a little corner of ignition land
that wasn't happening as much as I wanted.
And so I basically looked around,
And I found a couple things that other people had just
been starting.
And one of them is basically a Python wrapper
of one of our codes.
We have one of our multi-physics codes.
We call it Hydra.
And the developer physicist Joe Koning
did the hard work of actually installing Python
and a Python interpreter into that.
So it actually talks to this big multi-physics parallel code.
- Interesting, so it's actually hosting the Python runtime,
not the other way around,
where Python is trying to rapid C API?
- Right, right, no, no, the code itself is running
and Python is just bolted on top of it.
And so, yeah, yeah.
So the code is still in control.
It's actually very challenging
And Joe did a great job of doing that after the fact.
But now you have the ability to actually,
to initialize the problem and tell it it's run state
purely in Python.
And he was starting to build an infrastructure
to develop our problems, our ignition problems,
these horns and capsules and such.
And I just jumped in on that.
I thought, this is what we have to do.
It was a tremendous amount of effort to build that up,
to make it something that actually worked.
But I think that it's actually one of the easier tools
out there, most robust and user-friendly tools we have now.
And so that's sort of the one half of the puzzle
is just making a Python interface,
a purely Python interface to run these tools.
And again, so this tool we call Hype Hyde
for the Hydra Python deck, and again, Joe Koning initiated it
I've been really involved in.
Chris Young has gotten involved since then, helping a lot.
And so we basically just tried to build the entire ecosystem
of how do you initialize the horum and the capsule
and the laser and all of those things
so that you can tell this hydro code to run and give you
some results.
So that's been a big push that I've
been championing and proselytizing on.
The other half of it--
and this kind of goes back to Dave Monroe and Uyorak,
like I was mentioning earlier, a lot of people use York.
It's a very, very useful tool for data analysis.
Again, it's an interactive tool with a very, very nice array
syntax.
Think of it kind of like interpreted C,
if C syntax was just interpreted with a really nice array
syntax built on.
And so it's still quite widely used.
But I think to Dave's credit, Dave Monroe's credit,
as he was nearing retirement a couple of years ago,
He decided that Python was the way to go.
He decided that the future was going with the,
leveraging what's out there and just going with Python.
And he wanted to kind of--
- It's pretty bold when you are the one,
sorry, that's pretty bold when you're the one
who created your thing and you're like,
you know what, I love my baby,
but it's time to think beyond it.
- Absolutely, I don't think he gets enough credit for that.
I have immense respect for that,
'cause I mean, I don't know if I would do that,
A lot of people become very protective of their babies,
but now it's what's best.
One of the nice things about Yorick
is a lot like MATLAB or Mathematica.
When you type Yorick and open a shell,
everything you get is right there.
It's a single environment.
Like it or not, Python is a little more
heterogeneous and diverse than that.
and it's a feature in a bug.
And so one of the things he wanted to do
was as sort of a parting gift to us
is he created this tool called IDesign that is basically,
at its core, it's a Python virtual environment that just
pip installs all of the packages that we like to do,
a lot of them that we've been building,
to create this Python ecosystem that will then
talk to this Hypeide Hydra simulation layer.
Basically, then everybody can just type
Python and they'll get that environment.
By itself, that's not all that big a deal,
but it does actually have a certain amount of
nice features that we've been able to build it
into our GitLab continuous integration environment.
We built an awful lot on it since he did retire.
So you can take snapshots of the environment state
and some other things.
So people have told us we need to open source that.
I've sort of balked at it, but I think
I've made the decision that we're going to.
So iDesign will eventually be on that page
you were showing earlier.
So hopefully in a year or whatever, we're going to do
that.
But another key component, I think
one of the things I get excited about,
and it's one of the things that's exciting about Python
general is the fact that you can have these,
it's an enabling technology, right?
And so now that you have an iDesign environment,
everybody can come into a uniform Python environment
and everybody speaks the same languages,
has the same tools at their disposal.
Well, now you can actually build in tools
to go grab data from the NIF databases, right?
Where they're running shots
and they're compiling all of this data.
It's not always as easily accessible
as you would like for maybe a non-expert
in that particular diagnostic or whatever.
And so what we've been doing is another big campaign
that a part of this eye design ecosystem
is that we've been building
what's called a shot data pipeline.
And again, this runs in the GitLab
continuous integration environment.
Every night we go off to a bunch of databases
and just harvest a whole bunch of data,
bring it in and rebuild this eye design environment
with physical data, again, the tools,
and then the ability to actually run the code,
all in Python, right?
All in one environment.
And so this is kind of the--
Go ahead.
- Yeah, probably before when people run the experiments,
I don't know what before is, maybe way far back,
but when you get started, you're like,
okay, I got to get the data here,
and then we got to maybe process it
and then convert it to this other form
and then filter this down.
And then finally we can get it
so we can import it over here and process it, right?
And so you're talking about,
what if you had a CI pipeline that could do a bunch of these sort of steps, right? Is that the idea?
Basically, so there are experimental physicists who know their diagnostics extremely well,
and so they actually will take that raw data and distill it to something useful.
We're really just doing the more prosaic step of going and getting it
and bringing it so that it's proximate to the designer.
And that's one of those things, it's like, well, yeah, right?
Just go get it.
But it's a huge task, and it wastes an awful lot of designer
time when you have to chase down data for shots.
And so this is something that we're actually--
>>How much data are we talking?
>>Well, it's not a lot of data, really.
But per shot, you might only be dealing with-- you might only
be dealing with a few numbers, a few scalars, right?
And then it can go up to images.
And it can go up-- you can ask for a lot of--
you can get more detailed pictures.
But even-- you might just be looking for just a few numbers.
But the thing is, if you have to go ask for those few numbers
every time--
and it's not like it always has to happen.
It just-- there wasn't a process in place to just try to--
it was-- that was the culture, right?
When you want something, you just go ask somebody, right?
And that's fine.
But we've been trying to make the culture a little bit more
like, let's provide it and let's automatically create it.
And I think that's been really an exciting--
and this whole Python framework has
been the enabling technology to allow that to happen.
And we're just at the point now over the last year or so
that--
in fact, a lot of this stuff is still
coming to fruition right now.
You'd still consider it alpha and beta.
But it's actually finally coming together,
which I think is really exciting.
And that starts maybe slowly changing the culture,
where people start expecting, hey, it's actually easy for me
if I just put my data in a spot, and those Shot Data Pipeline
guys were going to just harvest it every night.
And Will says, I don't have to worry about it.
I don't have to field emails.
Once the foundation of the automation is there,
and people start to realize they can trust it,
then you start to get creative and put more things on there
and leverage it more, and it just makes a lot of--
- Exactly. - A lot of stuff take off.
- It's Pi PI, right?
RIT small.
(laughing)
- It is, it is.
- It is, and another part of that is that
the design community, which again,
I talked about how a lot of things,
people will develop tools,
and then they'll just share them when asked,
maybe put it in a directory somewhere.
Well, now we have a place
where you can actually have your own repository.
and maybe a physicist isn't all that interested in learning what a Git repository is,
but we can help with that. It can become a place where you can have your tools,
and they're available, and they're deployed, because we also have the issue that we have
systems that are air-gapped, and so we need to have this whole distribution mirrored over here
with a physical pass-off, and so we try to do that now regularly rather than just
piecemeal. And, you know, hey, if you create a little tool or
whatever, whatever it is, it's just everywhere all of a sudden,
right? And that's, that's really new. And I think that's, again,
very empowering for, for the designers who are creating these
NIF experiments.
I think people who haven't experienced it, these, these
organizations, these research labs and other similar places,
they basically become software companies,
at least they have a software team that is
functioning really at a pretty high level in them.
I worked at a research place that had six or seven PhDs,
and a bunch of grad students,
and me and another software developer,
and we were writing software full-time,
and it kept getting better and better.
What actually the grad students would say to me is,
"If you keep doing this,
we're going to be out of a job.
All the software you're writing,
this is what we do.
And like, no, what you're gonna do
is you're gonna do actual science
and actually better stuff.
And every time they'd be like, well, this was my job
and here it is a button now.
And nobody was fired from that.
They just did more interesting stuff
and took on more ambitious projects.
It was, it's pretty cool.
- Exactly.
And I've been accused of that before.
I like, you're gonna put us all on the job.
And it's like, no, no,
your job is so much more interesting now.
And my job is more interesting.
I mean, I spend a lot of time developing now.
I've kind of made this my passion.
And so I have a smaller fraction of my time
doing designing experiments, not zero, but smaller.
But I actually feel like it's much, much more efficient
than it ever was.
Yeah, you might have a bigger impact, though,
even though it's less time.
Yeah, it's just a lot more--
yeah, exactly.
It's just a lot more efficient.
And it's fun to show younger people who are coming in
how to do this and that it doesn't have to be
what I consider a painful cycle.
I mean, maybe some people enjoy it.
So I like to say that I feel like I'm
building the tools that I wish I had when I started.
And I think it's happening.
And again, we have a really great team of folks
that we're working with.
I work with computer scientists, Ryan Tran and Jimmy Smith
help me build this stuff out.
And it's just been really great.
Sounds fantastic.
How many people are on the team?
So it's just a small-- and a certain amount of it
is just people who want to help.
So it's just a few of us.
Again, Joe Coding and Chris Young and Dave Strozzi
and such.
And again, but then there are a lot
of people who are starting to become contributors.
And I think that's where the leverage starts,
sort of a stone's throw thing.
Yeah, yeah.
And on the NIF more broadly, how many people are involved?
Oh, NIF?
Hundreds.
Jeremy on the call here might be able to give an actual number.
But it's hundreds of scientists.
And so for scale, you have to keep in mind
that the Lawrence Lermore Lab has thousands of scientists.
So even though the NIF is a big program,
it's actually fairly small as a part of the greater lab
portfolio.
And I guess I want to emphasize that I'm speaking
kind of for the design corner.
There's the experimental corner, the people who actually
work with the hardware of the NIF and stuff.
And we talked to them, particularly
with the shot data pipeline.
And but there are a lot of places
that have their own architectures.
You can see that with the open source page and stuff.
So there's a tremendous amount.
And a lot of those things are doing really great,
their own great infrastructures.
But this is really speaking towards the needs
of the NIF ignition community.
- Yeah, so you talked about the specific libraries
that you are really focused on the work there,
but I'm sure you used a bunch of standard Python libraries,
packages that people are familiar with.
Maybe give us a sense of some of the tools
and things that were at play
that you're taking advantage of.
Oh, yeah, well, of course, we're using all the numpy scipy stuff.
That's sort of a given.
And we also, in Dye Design, we'll bring,
we have PlasmaPy and X-Ray DB and some of these,
again, these really nice physical data packages
that people have developed in the open source community
that now we just sort of bring in so that it's always there
and maintain for designers at your fingertips.
Certain number of us also do--
yeah, there you go, the page there you brought up.
>>Pip install PlasmaPy.
[LAUGHTER]
>>There you go, yeah.
And a lot of us, including myself,
are getting involved in machine learning as well.
Of course, that's an important part of the emerging technology.
People are excited to take advantage of.
And so I install PyTorch into IDesign
and try to make sure that's--
which is a bit of a challenge, right?
Because we have really large different architectures
and taking advantage of their different GPUs.
It's not necessarily just a pip install.
I might have to compile it.
And so there are challenges there.
But we try to just make that available for the design
community, which is cool.
Because again, I mean, not to harp on the enabling technology
thing, but we can now--
and I do, again, as a research thing,
I can import PyTorch into my HiPy that
runs my big Hydra multi-physics simulation
and have it do inference on some part of the simulation,
and maybe even offload part of that.
And so there are other efforts at the lab
as looking at those kinds of things as well.
But again, I don't know how you would do that
without these tools that we've been building, frankly,
at least in our corner of the world.
- Yeah, you gotta keep building that foundation
until everything is ready to click it together.
Yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
- While it's fun to imagine what would happen
if you asked chatGTP to say,
"Imagine, chatGTP, you had the most precise lasers
"in the world.
and design a fusion experiment.
I'm sure that's not going to result in much.
Where do you actually see real constructive AI applied
to this, or machine learning?
Do you have anything that you see on the radar there?
So yeah, there are several things
that it's being applied to.
And in fact, I think maybe you can find some links here
that there have been some--
there's a group that sort of predicted
or gave some confidence whether this shot was
going to achieve ignition, where they're
trying to learn from the experience of past shots
and try to get some idea of predicting how
a future shot will perform.
And so those are new things that are happening.
I think that the two sides of it are probably
those kinds of high-level things where you're trying to ask it
big questions about, what would happen if I do this?
But there's the other level of using it
to offload some of the big numerical heavy lifting
that we do all the time.
So we run a lot of--
these simulations run--
have massive calculations trying to do
the physics of these lasers shining into these whole rooms
and such.
And some of those calculations could
be learned by an inference engine
and just maybe a simplified version
provided over and over.
And so there are several efforts being applied to that.
Basically, train an agent to just learn
some part of how the simulation should--
what physical data the simulation should provide.
And so I've worked on some of those things.
There's more of that going on.
Yeah, so there's more details to that as well.
I mean, the way we do our simulations, we divide--
you can sort of think of our simulations
or our multi-physics simulations like an image.
An image divides-- to make an image,
you divide it up into a whole bunch of little tiny pixels.
And each pixel has a red, green, blue value.
And that's what makes your image.
And we kind of do that with our simulations.
If you want to simulate a whole room with a capsule inside,
you basically divide it up into a whole bunch
of little tiny pixels.
But we call them nodes, and we interconnect them
with their nearest neighbors.
So they create that links into a mesh.
And rather than having red, green, blue,
we have physics attributes.
We tell it what it's made of.
That node is what it's made of, how hot it is, things like that.
It's ionization state.
And then we run the laws of physics
on all of these nodes as they talk to each other,
and then that unfolds.
But as you can imagine, if you have a mesh of all these nodes,
they can tangle up, and they can get all messed up.
And so one of the things that we do
is we have a certain amount of algorithms
to try to keep that tangling from happening too much
and crashing simulations.
So that's sort of an inside baseball thing.
But that's one of the things--
then I'm one of the side projects I have,
for instance, of actually using reinforcement learning
to try to figure out, just by giving it
a whole bunch of trials, what's the best policy for relaxing
these nodes so that they don't crash a simulation?
Yeah, and these things just make simulations easier again,
right, and all of this.
So you can ask questions and explore more quickly
and easily.
Right. We all know how tricky even three body problems are in an orbiting system where they can become chaotic.
And well, imagine this thing you're describing is the interactions are insane.
Right. And so if you could get something to predict, you say, here's a million different examples of what happened, how it started and how it started.
How's it going? Sort of.
Exactly.
It started, we're thinking here, how's it going to go, right?
Right, right. And of course, that's an experience in itself, right? I mean,
to actually take these forays into data science and large-scale data sets and, you know,
training in multiple GPUs and stuff like that. It's been fun. I mean, you know, I know
people do that all the time, but it's interesting to have that experience.
Yeah, for sure. There are some interesting articles of actually
the CogSim team at LLNL and some of the work being done there.
So I'll link to those articles in the show notes.
People can check that out.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, go ahead.
Oh, no, no, just basically what you said.
That is the team I'm kind of referring to,
that there is this effort to bring machine learning to bear
on some of these problems.
And so that's good work that they're doing.
Yeah, of course.
We're getting short on time here, but let's wrap this up
with one other aspect.
You talked about having air-gapped systems
and not everything necessarily should be online or is online.
You want it to be all kind of isolated and stable.
So you've got a lot of computation
you've got to be doing.
Tell us just a bit about the computing environment.
You have interesting clusters or grid computing,
or what's the story for actually running all this stuff?
- Yeah, yeah, good question.
Yeah, for the context.
So basically we have a bunch of very, very large
computer clusters at the lab,
and some of them are like near the biggest computers
in the world or were at one time and such.
I don't keep track of that, but those are all on lists,
and there are new ones on the horizon
that will take that crown again.
So what we do is basically submit our jobs,
carving out some chunk of the machine
to run these multi-physics simulations
for so many hours or days.
And so we're doing that.
We do a certain amount of that on the open side,
but then we also have a lot of resources
on these air gap systems.
And so we do a lot of our running there.
And so that's the exigency of moving our data,
physical data from the NIF and our tools over there.
So we always have up-to-date tools to run there.
And so yeah, we have--
and these are made by different vendors.
And it's interesting.
They're evolving where there's larger GPU components
than there used to be.
And the codes are learning to adapt to that.
It's a fairly dynamic environment.
And so that's kind of, I guess, the general run environment we have
that we're running on a bunch of clusters.
How's quantum computing looking?
Any-- Are there any quantum applicable problems here?
Not directly, from my experience.
I know there are some people working on quantum computing at the lab, but I'm not closely
attached to that.
So I'm more specifically thinking like if you had a quantum computer, would this allow
you, not necessarily trying to invent quantum computing, but somebody has to.
Probably not.
I mean, maybe somebody else would know something.
But yeah, I mean, really we're just trying to kind of integrate these differential equations
that describe the physical system.
And so maybe there's a way to diagonalize a matrix
with quantum computing that's way,
way better than an explicit method that we use.
But yeah, I'm not aware of it at this point.
>>Luis: I definitely don't know enough about quantum computing
to even suggest that.
I haven't been on this, but--
Well, I guess we're due now if these barriers are falling, right?
You had GPD.
Where's the trifecta?
Come on.
Yeah, exactly.
We'll be able to try and veer it of new things.
Be careful what you wish for though, right?
I mean, having been able to crack any passwords, I don't know if that's a good thing.
Exactly.
I'd love faster computers.
Wait, baking doesn't work anymore.
Oh no.
Right.
Back to rubbing sticks together and sleeping on the work bed.
Exactly.
I've got my money clip that I keep everything on my person.
(laughs)
- Exactly, I'll mail you some cash in physical mail,
get this out.
- Right, right.
- You're right, careful what we wish for.
And we won't have much cash
'cause ChatGPT will be writing our software
that we used to write, so it'll be tough.
- Well, this is true, this is true.
(laughs)
- No, honestly, I'm very optimistic about the future
in a lot of these things, and especially this.
So awesome work.
Now, before you get out of here,
let me ask you the final two questions.
If you're going to work on some of these Python projects,
what editor are you using?
>>Yeah, so I've kind of gone through the litany of editors
in my evolution.
I started with VI and went to Emacs,
went and used Emacs for a very long time.
And then probably five or so years ago,
I decided I needed to make a change, and I went to Atom.
And I could use Emacs binding, so I
didn't have to rewire my muscle memory.
And really enjoyed that until, of course, last summer
when they killed it.
And so I had to look around.
And it was funny because I had a summer student who I just
told how to use Atom.
And I was like, oh, this is great.
And then I had to tell him literally a week later,
forget that.
And that thing you really love, they canceled it.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, just don't.
Just don't.
He liked it too.
So I looked around.
And I think I did what a lot of people are doing.
I went with VS Code and I love it.
My goodness, it's really mature and good.
And, you know, Copilot, it's again, you know,
it's, I'm still, you know, learning how to use it
effectively, but it's amazing.
It's a state changer.
- It is absolutely amazing.
- Yeah.
- I feel like VS.
- Oh, sorry.
Yeah, just to, you know, like for,
because we are working on clusters,
a lot of things are remote, you know,
The fact that you can do remote SSH,
you know, and you can have your software here
and your notebook here, and then a terminal below it,
and it's all just in your VS Code window,
it's pretty sweet.
- Yeah, you're kind of connect to it,
have your editor running locally,
but connected to that.
- Right, there's no delay with typing and all,
but you are running on the heavy iron somewhere,
the big iron somewhere.
- Indeed.
I feel like VS Code is maybe the natural successor
to people who did Sublime and Atom.
Those are the, I see that kind of that flow there.
All right, and then notable PyPI package.
- So, well, right off the bat, you put up at the beginning,
you know, llnl.github.io is, I think,
you know, a really good resource
for just sort of seeing the open source packages
that are being developed at the lab.
And again, they have a bent towards high performance
computing and such.
But like I said, eventually, iDesign will be up there.
We'll open source that.
I will mention one that Dave Monroe, again,
and is sort of trying to take care of us before he retired.
He wrote a nice little package called
QND, which is on this for quick and dirty, QND.
And that's now being maintained by Dave Strozzi.
And it's a nice little package.
But what it does is actually unifies an interface
for several different binary formats, in particular HDF5,
and at CDF, and a lab internal format called PDB.
And it's one of those things that passes the test,
in my mind, where I've actually reached for it
in my own just little projects, where if I need to just store
some data--
NumPy has its own storage things,
but it doesn't do really good if you have a hierarchical data
or if you want to do records and have things stored over time.
But this is actually a simple enough and uniform enough
interface that it's like, wow, this really works.
And so any time you actually reach for it
when you just need that tool, I think
that it's past some sort of threshold of usability.
And again, it's open source.
And I think for people who do things like that,
with binary data, I think this might be something that other people might want to look at.
One of those Lego building blocks. Yeah, exactly.
One other question, people out there who are really interested in what you're talking about,
and maybe they previously thought of LLNL as just a place for physicists,
and maybe you're starting to think, oh, maybe it's a place for software people and data scientists.
Are you guys hiring?
Is there a lot of opportunity for folks?
>>Absolutely, actually.
Right now, strangely, I think there
might be some tailwinds after this success.
That's above my pay grade.
But I think that's something that should be happening.
There should be a lot more good stuff going on.
But right now, even, there's a lot of hiring going on.
And so if you find some of this interesting
and you have Python chops, check us out, definitely.
Awesome.
Jay, thanks for being here.
Congratulations once again.
It's really amazing work.
And I know it's early days, but we'll look back on it,
I'm sure.
Yeah, thank you, Michael.
Yeah, it's been a lot of fun.
It's fun to be a part of it and look back on the road.
And as you say, it's still a long road ahead.
It is, but I'll be tracking it.
It'll be exciting to see where it goes.